Migration skills assessment
Learn how to get a skills assessment for migration.
If you want to migrate to Australia as an engineer, you need to have your skills formally assessed. Engineers Australia is authorised by the Australian government’s
Department of Home Affairs
to assess your qualifications, skills and experience to work in Australia.
You’ll need a migration skills assessment outcome letter from us before you can apply for a visa to come to Australia.
Changes to migration skills assessment process for advanced diploma and associate degree qualifications
Effective 1 September 2024, Engineers Australia has updated its approach to migration skills assessments for individuals with advanced diploma and associate degree qualifications from Registered Training Organisations (RTOs).
Find out more
Applying for a skills assessment is a six-step process
1
Check your qualification
2
Understand the four engineering occupational categories
3
Choose an assessment pathway
4
Prepare your application
5
Submit your application
6
Receive the outcome
Check your qualification
Your qualification is the main factor in choosing the right assessment pathway.
It’s determined by:
the country you received it
the type of qualification
whether it’s accredited.
Accredited
qualifications are engineering qualifications which are recognised through agreements known as Accords. There are three relevant Accords – the Washington Accord, Sydney Accord and Dublin Accord. We’ll recognise your qualifications under these Accords if:
It was completed after, or in the same year in which the country was accepted as a full signatory under the Accord.
Your program falls within the time period specified as accredited on the signatory’s website for your country. This may be referred to as a program’s intake, commencement or graduate year.
Your program is listed as fully accredited, provisional accreditation isn’t sufficient.
Use the qualification checker on the
International Engineering Alliance
website to check if your qualifications are accredited.
If you completed your qualification in Australia and it’s listed in Engineers Australia’s list of
accredited programs
, then you can apply directly through the Australian qualifications pathway.
Occupational categories
Engineers Australia recognises four
occupational categories
for skilled migration:
Professional engineer
Engineering technologist
Engineering associate
Engineering manager.
Based on your qualifications and skills, you will work in Australia in one of these occupational categories.
Assessment pathways
If your qualification is accredited, you can choose between four assessment pathways or types:
Australian qualification
Washington Accord
Dublin Accord
Sydney Accord
If you have a
French qualification
, you can apply under the Washington Accord.
Australian pathway
You can apply via the Australian qualification pathway if:
your program is
accredited by Engineers Australia
, and
you started your program during or after the year of accreditation commencement.
Engineers Australia recently updated the Australian qualification pathway for those holding Advanced Diplomas or Associate Degrees and seeking a skills assessment outcome. From 1 September 2024, only qualifications accredited by Engineers Australi
a
are eligible for assessment under this pathway. Find out more
about the changes
.
Competency demonstration report pathway
You should apply via the competency demonstration report (CDR) assessment pathway if you:
have a provisionally-accredited Australian qualification
have an engineering qualification that is not accredited
are seeking to be assessed for an engineering occupation that differs from your accredited qualification title
have a qualification or a combination of qualifications that demonstrate underpinning knowledge aligned with the nominated occupation.
Under the CDR pathway, your knowledge, skills and competency will be evaluated against Engineers Australia standards appropriate for your nominated occupation.
During the CDR pathway online application, you will be prompted to select your engineering occupation (or qualification) from a dropdown list. Currently, this list includes 31 engineering occupations, as determined by the Australian government.
Upon successful assessment, both your occupational category and engineering occupation will be displayed in the outcome letter.
Engineers Australia is the internationally recognised accrediting body in Australia. Accreditation applies to a program, not an individual. Any graduate from a fully accredited program is deemed to have met the stage 1 competencies for the relevant
occupational category
. Find out more about
accreditation
.
Use the quiz tool to help you choose the right assessment pathway.
Prepare your application
You can start your online application and save and exit at any point and then return to complete it.
R
ead through the requirements in the online application for the assessment type you’ve chosen.
Then gather all the documents you’ll need and read the detailed information on how to
Prepare your migration skills assessment application
. This downloadable publication explains the:
full list of documents you need to provide for the assessment pathway you’ve chosen
English language requirements
ethical standards you must follow in your application.
Be sure to read this material thoroughly to ensure your assessment has the best outcome.
Submit your application
To apply online, you’ll need to create an account in the
portal
. You’ll receive your account ID via email once you’ve created your account.
When you receive your account ID,
login
and select migration skills assessment from the menu. Select your assessment pathway, upload all the required documents and submit your application. The online application is easy to follow, but if you need help refer to the
online application guide
.
You’ll receive an email confirmation when your application has been successfully submitted.
Assessment processing times
Migration skills assessment applications submitted for standard assessment generally take 15 weeks to be assigned to an assessor. This doesn’t mean you’ll receive an outcome in this timeframe. The time it takes to process your assessment depends on the quality of the documents you provide and whether we need to ask you for more information.
Login
to your account on the portal to check the status of your application. Online status updates appear throughout the assessment process until finalised. You can also
email
us to request an update on the status of your application.
Assessment fees
The fee for apply for migration skills assessment is detailed on the
assessment fees and additional services
page.
Receive your assessment outcome
You’ll receive an email from us to let you know if your application has been successful or not. If your application is successful, you’ll also receive a migration skills assessment outcome letter which you can use for migration purposes. You can verify your outcome letter by logging into the
EA portal
.
Your assessment letter is valid for an indefinite period with Engineers Australia. You’ll need to check the
Department of Home Affairs website
for how long your letter is valid for migration visa applications.
Note that Engineers Australia is not allowed to give you migration advice. We also do not award the points for migration as part of our process. Contact the Department of Home Affairs for all questions about migration or visa-related issues. We can’t help you with these matters.
Outcome reviews and appeals
If you disagree with your assessment outcome, you can ask for a
review or an appeal
.
Contact us
if you have any questions about the migration skills assessment process.
