Occupational categories
Learn about the occupational categories within the engineering profession.
In Australia, roles in the engineering profession fall within three occupational categories. A fourth occupational category is available for the purposes of migrant skills assessment.
These categories are based on educational qualifications and experience.
Professional engineer
Professional engineers hold a four-year professional engineering degree that’s
accredited
or recognised by Engineers Australia.
Professional engineers can also hold comparable overseas qualifications or a degree that’s accredited under the
Washington Accord
.
As a professional engineer, you have the skills to:
focus on overall systems
develop and apply new engineering practices
apply leadership and management skills
pursue engineering opportunities in a holistic way, taking environmental, community and social issues into consideration
solve diverse problems.
Stage 1 competency standards for professional engineers
.
Stage 2 competency standards for professional engineers
.
Engineering technologist
Engineering technologists hold a three-year engineering technology degree that’s
accredited
or recognised by Engineers Australia.
Engineering technologists can also hold comparable overseas qualifications or a degree that’s accredited under the
Sydney Accord
.
As an engineering technologist, you have the skills to:
focus on interactions with the system
modify and adapt established engineering practices
advance engineering technology.
Stage 1 competency standards for engineering technologists
.
Stage 2 competency standards for engineering technologists
.
Engineering associate
Engineering associates hold a two-year advanced diploma or associate degree of engineering that’s
accredited
or recognised by Engineers Australia.
Engineering associates can also hold a comparable overseas qualification or a degree that’s accredited under the
Dublin Accord
. The qualification needs to have a strong practical focus.
As an engineering associate, you have the skills to:
focus on specific elements of the system
work within codes and apply established practices and procedures.
Stage 1 competency standards for engineering associates
.
Stage 2 competency standards for engineering associates
.
Engineering manager
Engineering Manager is an
ANZSCO occupation
that belongs to the Managers occupation group listed by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Engineers Australia is the designated assessing authority for this occupation. Candidates may seek
Migration Skills Assessment
(MSA) via Competency Demonstration Report (CDR) pathway.
Please note, Engineering Manager is not a membership occupational category, therefore a positive outcome will not allow automatic membership with Engineers Australia. Applicants may be required to undertake an entry to practice competency assessment for their nominated membership Occupational Category as Professional Engineer, Engineering Technologist or Engineering Associate.
Engineering managers hold a Bachelor of Engineering degree or comparable qualification in a field related to engineering plus relevant experience. As an engineering manager, you have the skills to:
formulate, implement and monitor engineering strategies, policies and plans
direct the administration and review of engineering operations for an organisation.
Learn more about the
competencies for engineering managers
.
